Installation Guidelines 

VISCERAL Annotation Ticketing Framework

The VISCERAL annotation ticketing framework provides backend and frontend components to manage the distribution of annotation tickets of multiple annotation types to multiple annotators.
This document contains installation guidelines to set up the whole framework.

Author: Markus Krenn, Medical University of Vienna (markus.krenn@meduniwien.ac.at)
The framework is build on three components:
1. MySQL DB to store all entities of the ticketing framework (tickets, annotators, volumes, annotation types,...)
2. Webinterface, as frontend for annotators to submit annotations and quality checks.
3. Matlab backend to manage, distribute and modify tickets, annotation types, subjects to annotate and annotators.
Requirements:
The following software systems are required to set up the VISCERAL annotation ticketing framework on a local machine.
MATLAB distribution including the Database Toolbox (http://de.mathworks.com/products/database/)
Web server supporting PHP and MySQL
SFTP server to store submitted annotations
Stepwise installation guide:
1. Creating the Data base:
All required create statements are located at ./db/
1.1) Use “createStatements.sql” to create all required tables.
1.2) Execute “annotation_latest_idx.sql” and “fullLatestAnnotation_view.sql” to create views required (sequence important!)
1.3) Execute “latestAnnotationTickets.sql”, “setAnnotationStatus.sql” and “setQCAnnotationStatus.sql” to create stored procedures, required for interaction of web-interface and DB.

2. Set up the web interface
The HTML & php sources are given at ./frontend/ of the repository.
Copy all files to your web server and modify the following files according to your settings:
 - /frontend/visceral/tickets/Config.php: Enter the your database (host adress, user, password and schema name) and the SFTP server details (hostname, user password).
 - ./frontend/visceral/tickets/FtpUpload.php: Edit the data path of the upload directory on your SFTP server in line 56 (PATH_OF_DATADIR_ON_FTP_SERVER)

3. SFTP server:
- Ensure that all directories listed in the DB table annotationType are available on the upload directory of the SFTP server (default configuration: “manual_annotations”, “manual_landmark_annotations”, “manual_lesion_annotations”)
4. Matlab Backend
4.1) Set data paths (where you want to store volumes, annotations,...) in ./matlab_backend/initializeFramework
4.2) Set DB connection details in ./matlab_backend/db_functions/dbOpenConnection.m  
4.3)  Run ./matlab_backend/tutorial.m to learn how to modify and handle annotation tickets, volumes, annotators...



